snow white
by
the brothers grimm
[Music]
it was the middle of winter
and the snowflakes were falling like
feathers from the sky
and a queen sat at her window working
and her embroidery frame was of ebony
as she worked
gazing at times out on the snow she
pricked her finger
and there fell from it three drops of
blood on the snow
and when she saw how bright and red it
looked
she said to herself
oh that i had a child as white as snow
as red as blood
and as black as the wood of the
embroidery frame
not very long after she had a daughter
with skin as white as snow
lips as red as blood
and hair as black as ebony
and she was named snow white
and when she was born
the queen died
after a year had gone by
the king took another wife
a beautiful woman but proud and
overbearing
and she could not bear to be surpassed
in beauty by anyone
she had a magic looking glass
and she used to stand before it and look
in it and say
looking glass upon the wall
who is fairest of us all
and the looking glass would answer
you are the fairest of them all
and she was contented
for she knew that the looking glass
spoke the truth
now snow white was growing prettier and
prettier
and when she was seven years old she was
as beautiful as day
far more so than the queen herself
so one day when the queen went to her
mirror and said
looking glass upon the wall
who is fairest of us all
it answered
queen
you are full fair tis true
but snow white fairer is than you
this gave the queen a great shock and
she became yellow and green with envy
and from that hour her heart turned
against snow white
and she hated her
an envy and pride like ill weeds grew in
her heart higher every day
until she had no peace day or night
at last she sent for a huntsman and said
take the child out into the woods so
that i may set eyes on her no more
you must put her to death
and bring me her heart for a token
the huntsman consented and led her away
but when he drew his cutlass to pierce
snow white's innocent heart
she began to weep
and to say
oh dear huntsman
do not take my life
i will go away into the wild wood and
never come home again
and as she was so lovely
the huntsman had pity on her and said
away with you then poor child
for he thought the wild animals would be
sure to devour her
and it was as if a stone had been rolled
away from his heart when he spared to
put her to death
just at that moment
a young wild boar came running by
so he caught it and killed it
and taking out its heart he brought it
to the queen for a token
and it was salted and cooked
and the wicked woman ate it up
thinking that there was an end of snow
white
now when the poor child found herself
quite alone in the wild woods
she felt full of terror
even of the very leaves on the trees
and she did not know what to do for
fright
then she began to run over the sharp
stones and through the thorn bushes and
the wild beasts after her
but they did her no harm
she ran as long as her feet would carry
her
and when the evening drew near
she came to a little house
and she went inside to rest
everything there was very small
but as pretty and clean as possible
there stood the little table ready laid
and covered with a white cloth
and seven little plates
and seven knives and forks and drinking
cups
by the wall stood seven little beds side
by side covered with clean white quilts
snow white being very hungry and thirsty
ate from each plate a little porridge
and bread
and drank out of each little cup a drop
of wine so as not to finish up one
portion alone
after that she felt so tired that she
lay down on one of the beds
but it did not seem to suit her
one was too long
another too short
but at last the seventh was quite right
and so she lay down upon it
committed herself to heaven
and fell asleep
when it was quite dark
the masters of the house came home
they were seven dwarfs whose occupation
was to dig underground among the
mountains
when they had lighted their seven
candles and it was quite light in the
little house
they saw that someone must have been in
as everything was not in the same order
in which they left it
the first said
who's been sitting in my little chair
the second said
who's been eating from my little plate
the third said
who's been taking my little loaf
the fourth said
who's been tasting my porridge
the fifth said
who's been using my little
fork the sixth said
who's been cutting with my little knife
the seventh said
who's been drinking from my little cup
then the first one looking round saw a
hollow in his bed and cried
who has been lying on my bed
[Music]
and the others came running and cried
someone has been on our beds too
but when the seventh looked at his bed
he saw little snow white lying there
asleep
then he told the others who came running
up crying out in their astonishment and
holding up their seven little candles to
throw a light upon snow white
[Music]
oh goodness
oh gracious
cried they
what beautiful child is this
and we're so full of joy to see her that
they did not wake her but let her sleep
on
and the seventh dwarf slept with his
comrades an hour at a time with each
until the night had passed
when it was morning and snow white awoke
and saw the seven dwarfs she was very
frightened
but they seemed quite friendly and asked
her what her name was
and she told them
and then they asked how she came to be
in their house
and she related to them how her
stepmother had wished her to be put to
death
and how the huntsman had spared her life
and how she had run the whole day long
until at last she had found their little
house
then the dwarf said
if you will keep our house for us and
cook and wash and make the beds and sow
and knit and keep everything tidy and
clean
you may stay with us and you shall lack
nothing
with all my heart
said snow white
and so she stayed and kept the house in
good order
in the morning the dwarfs went to the
mountain to dig for gold
in the evening they came home
and their supper had to be ready for
them
all the day long the maiden was left
alone
and the good little dwarves warned her
saying
beware of your stepmother she will soon
know you are here
let no one into the house
now the queen having eaten snow white's
heart as she supposed felt quite sure
that now she was the first and fairest
and so she came to her mirror and said
looking glass upon the wall
who is fairest of us all
and the glass answered
queen
thou art of beauty rare
but snow white living in the glen with
the seven little men is a thousand times
more fair
then she was very angry for the glass
always spoke the truth and she knew that
the huntsman must have deceived her and
that snow white must still be living
and she thought and thought how she
could manage to make an end for her
for as long as she was not the fairest
in the land
envy left her no rest
at last she thought of a plan
she painted her face and dressed herself
like an old peddler woman so that no one
would have known her
in this disguise she went across the
seven mountains
until she came to the house of the seven
little dwarves
and she knocked at the door and cried
fine where's to sell
fine wares to sell
snow white peeped out of the window
and cried
good day good woman
what have you to sell
good wears
fine wears
answered she
laces of all colors
and she held up a piece that was woven
of variegated silk
i need not be afraid of letting in this
good woman
thought snow white
and she unbarred the door and bought the
pretty lace
what a figure you are child
said the old woman
come and let me lace you properly for
once
snow white suspecting nothing stood up
before her and let her lace her with the
new lace
but the old woman laced so quick and
tight that it took snow white's breath
away and she fell down as dead
[Music]
now you have done with being the fairest
said the old woman as she hastened away
not long after that towards evening
the seven dwarves came home and were
terrified to see their dear snow white
lying on the ground without life or
motion
they raised her up
and when they saw how tightly she was
laced they cut the lace in two
then she began to draw breath
and little by little she returned to
life
when the dwarves heard what had happened
they said
the old peddler woman was no other than
the wicked queen
you must beware of letting anyone in
when we are not here
and when the wicked woman got home she
went to her glass and said
looking glass against the wall
who is fairest of us all
and it answered as before
queen thou art of beauty rare
but snow white living in the glen with
the seven little men
is a thousand times more fair
when she heard that she was so struck
with surprise that all the blood left
her heart
for she knew that snow white must still
be living
but now said she
i will think of something that will be
her ruin
and by witchcraft she made a poisoned
comb
then she dressed herself up to look like
another different sort of old woman
so she went across the seven mountains
and she came to the house of the seven
dwarfs and knocked at the door and cried
good wares to sell
snow white looked out and said
go away
i must not let anybody in
but you are not forbidden to look
said the old woman
taking out the poisoned comb and holding
it up
it pleased the poor child so much that
she was tempted to open the door
and when the bargain was made the old
woman said
now for once
your hair shall be properly combed
poor snow white thinking no harm
let the old woman do as she would
but no sooner was the comb put in her
hair then the poison began to work
and the poor girl fell down senseless
now you paragon of beauty
said the wicked woman
this is the end of you
and went off
by good luck it was now near evening and
the seven little dwarves came home
when they saw snow white lying on the
ground as dead
they thought directly that it was the
stepmother's doing and looked about
found the poisoned comb
and no sooner had they drawn it out of
her hair
then snow white came to herself
and related all that had passed
then they warned her once more to be on
her guard and never again to let anyone
in at the door
and the queen went home and stood before
the looking glass and said
looking glass against the wall who is
fairest of us all
and the looking glass answered as before
queen
thou art of beauty rare
but snow white living in the glen with
the seven little men
is a thousand times more fair
when she heard the looking glass speak
thus she trembled and shook with anger
snow white shall die
cried she
though it should cost me my own life
and then she went to a secret lonely
chamber where no one was likely to come
and there she made a poisonous apple
it was beautiful to look upon
being white with red cheeks
so that anyone who should see it must
long for it
but whoever ate even a little bit of it
must
die when the apple was ready she painted
her face and clothed herself like a
peasant woman and went across the seven
mountains to where the seven dwarves
lived
and when she knocked at the door snow
white put her head out of the window and
said
i dare not let anybody in
the seven dwarfs told me not
all right
answered the woman
i can easily get rid of my apples
elsewhere
there
i will give you one
no
answered snow white
i dare not take anything
are you afraid of poison
said the woman
look here i will cut the apple in two
pieces
you shall have the red side i will have
the white one
for the apple was so cunningly made that
all the poison was in the rosy half of
it
snow white longed for the beautiful
apple
and as she saw the peasant woman eating
a piece of it she could no longer
refrain
but stretched out her hand and took the
poisoned half
but no sooner had she taken a morsel of
it into her mouth then she fell to the
earth as dead
and the queen
casting on her a terrible glance
laughed aloud and cried
as white as snow as red as blood as
black as ebony
this time the dwarves will not be able
to bring you to life
again and when she went home and asked
the looking glass
looking glass against the wall
who is the fairest of us all
at last it answered
you are the fairest now of all
then her envious heart had peace
as much as an envious heart can have
the dwarves when they came home in the
evening found snow white lying on the
ground
and there came no breath out of her
mouth
and she was dead
they lifted her up sort of anything
poisonous was to be found
cut her laces combed her hair
washed her with water and wine
but all was of no avail
the poor child was dead
and remained dead
then
they laid her on a bed
and sat all seven of them rounded and
wept and lamented three whole days
and then they would have buried her
but that she looked still as if she were
living
with her beautiful blooming cheeks
so they said
we cannot hide her away in the black
ground
and they had made a coffin of clear
glass
so as to be looked into from all sides
and they laid her in it and wrote in
golden letters upon it her name
and that she was a king's daughter
then they set the coffin out upon the
mountain
and one of them always remained by it to
watch
and the birds came too
and mourned for snow white
first an owl
then a raven
and lastly
a dove
now for a long while snow white lay in
the coffin and never changed but looked
as if she were asleep
for she was still as white as snow
as red as blood
and her hair was as black as ebony
it happened however that one day a
king's son rode through the wood and up
to the dwarf's house which was near it
he saw on the mountain the coffin
and beautiful snow white within it and
he read what was written in gold letters
upon it
then he said to the dwarves
let me have the coffin
and i will give you whatever you like to
ask for it
but the dwarves told him that they could
not part with it for all the gold in the
world
but he said
i beseech you to give it me
for i cannot live without looking upon
snow white
if you consent
i will bring you to great honor and care
for you as if you were my brethren
when he so spoke the good little dwarves
had pity upon him and gave him the
coffin
and the king's son called his servants
and bid them carry it away on their
shoulders
now it happened that as they were going
along they stumbled over a bush
and with the shaking the bit of poisoned
apple flew out of her throat
it was not long before she opened her
eyes threw up the cover of the coffin
and sat up alive and well
oh dear
where am i
cried she
the king's son answered full of joy
you are near me
and relating all that had happened he
said
i would rather have you than anything in
the world
come with me to my father's castle and
you shall be my bride
and snow white was kind and went with
him
and their wedding was held with pomp and
great
splendor but snow white's wicked
stepmother was also bitten to the feast
and when she had dressed herself in
beautiful clothes she went to her
looking glass and said
looking glass upon the wall
who is fairest of us all
the looking glass answered
oh queen
although you are of beauty rare
the young bride is a thousand times more
fair
then she railed and cursed and was
beside herself with disappointment and
anger
first she thought she would not go to
the wedding
but then she felt she should have no
peace until she went and saw the bride
and when she saw her
she knew her for snow white
and could not stir from the place for
anger and terror for iron slippers had
already been put on the fire
and they were brought in with tongues
and set before her
and the queen was forced to put them on
and dance
until she fell down dead
[Music]
thank you for listening to
snow white
by
the brothers grimm